# Xrpa

See the [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for how to help out.

## Integrating with a Unity git repo

### Setup Xrpa as a git submodule
From a PowerShell prompt, change directory to the root the git repo containing your Unity project. Then run the following commands:

```
git submodule add https://github.com/facebookexperimental/xrpa xrpa
git submodule update --init --recursive
git add .
git commit -m "Setup xrpa submodule"
```

### Create package.json, configure, and install dependencies
Run the following PowerShell commands to setup files:
```
copy xrpa/xrpa-init/package.json .
copy xrpa/xrpa-init/tsconfig.json .
mkdir js
copy xrpa/xrpa-init/*.ts js/
Add-Content -Path .gitignore -Value "/node_modules/"
```

Open package.json in a text editor and change the name and description to something relevant to your project. Then run the following PowerShell commands:
```
yarn
git add .
git commit -m "Setup xrpa config and install dependencies"
```

Whenever you want to upgrade to the latest version of Xrpa, simply run `yarn pull-xrpa` and it will run the commands defined in the pull-xrpa script in your package.json and do the right thing.

### Create Effects
Create effects in typescript files within the `js/` subfolder. See TestEffect.ts for an example. Include (and name) effects in `js/index.ts` for them to be available in Unity.

### Using Effects
Each effect creates a MonoBehaviour script component that you can place in your scenes. These components have parameters exposed that get routed to the signal processor. You can run an effect in several ways:
1. Check the `AutoRun` option on the script component. This will make it run the effect when the component's game object becomes alive.
2. Call the `Run()` and `Stop()` methods on the script component.
3. Spawn separate effect instances by calling the `Spawn()` method on the script component. This will create a separate object that you need to manage yourself (it is an IDisposable so you can dispose of it that way, or call `Terminate()` on it). The effect instance will get initialized with the parameter values that are currently set on the script component, but you can modify them separately afterward by calling the accessors on the effect instance object.

### At Runtime
In order for effects to play, you need to have the SignalProcessing module and the SignalOutput module running. From a PowerShell prompt, simply navigate to the root directory and run `yarn SignalOutput` and `yarn SignalProcessing` (in separate PowerShell windows). To exit those modules, just press the enter key with the window in focus.

### Output Devices
#### BuzzDuino
Run `yarn SignalOutput` and in your effect target the device with `strContains("BuzzDuino")`. SignalOutput will print out what devices it found and what COM port they are on (or BLE address if that's how your BD is connected).

#### Audio
Target your audio device with `strContains` and the system name of your audio device. SignalOutput will print out a list of devices it finds.

## License
Xrpa is Apache 2.0 licensed, as found in the LICENSE file.

## Open Souce Attributions

This project has the following open source dependencies:

### boost
This software contains the following license and notice below:

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

### fs-extra
This software contains the following license and notice below:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011-2024 JP Richardson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the 'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
 merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
 furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS
OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
 ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
